# TiOF<sub>2</sub> structure prediction dataset

Author: Benjamin J. Morgan
ORCID: 0000-0002-3056-8233
 
This dataset contains a series of calculations performed to study the F/O disorder in TiOF2, and the consequences for local structure.

The top-level directory contains the following sub-directories:

- cluster_predictions
- vasp_calculations
- cluster_expansion
- cluster_predictions
- cluster_ga_4x4x4

## Overview

### Symmetry analysis of 2x2x2 disordered supercells

For our initial study of the F/O disorder in TiOF2, we began by generating all symmetry-inequivalent 2x2x2 supercells with TiOF2 stoichiometry. This symmetry analysis and structure generation is performed by the script `2x2x2_configs.py` in the `configurations` directory, and uses the `bsym` Python module. The output is a set of 2664 symmetry-inequivalent structures, outputted as `VASP` `POSCAR` files. These are generated in the `configurations/poscars` directory, and are named `config_<number>.poscar`, where `<number>` is the configuration number for that structure.

### Geometry optimisation using `VASP`.
 
A subset of the 2664 symmetry-inequivalent structures generated by `bsym` were selected for full geomtry optimisation using density functional theory with `VASP`. These calculations used the `Ti_pv`, `O`, and `F` PAW pseudopotentials, with a Dudarev $+U$ term applied to the Ti $d$ states. PBEsol functional. Full geometry optimisations were performed, allowing cell shape and volume to change freely. Energy cutoff of 700 eV, and k-point sampling using a 4x4x4 Monkhorst-Pack k-point mesh. Struture optimsation was deemed converged when forces on all ions were smaller than 0.01 eV per Angstrom. Energies of the optimised structures were collated using the `vasp_summary.py` script (which relies on the `vasppy` Python module), and are listed in the `TiOF2_2x2x2_sample_data.yaml` files.

(note, +U correction not necessary for these calculations, but has been used for consistency with other work, and to allow future modelling of defective systems) 

(note. The data set also contains an equivalent set of calculations performed using a 2x2x2 Monkhorst-Pack k-point mesh).

## Requirements

### Python Modules

- `bsym`: Symmetry analysis of the disordered TiOF2 2x2x2 supercell.
- `pymatgen`: Handling structures, and converting to/from `VASP` `POSCAR` format.
- `vasppy`: Collating `VASP` calculation data.
- `beagle`: Optimisation of TiOF2 4x4x4 supercells by a genetic algorithm, using the cluster expansion as a model Hamiltonian.

### Other Codes

- [`VASP`](http://vasp.at/): All DFT geometry optimisations.
- `MAPS`, available as part of the [ATAT](https://www.brown.edu/Departments/Engineering/Labs/avdw/atat/) suite of codes: Fitting the cluster expansion.
 
